# GrocerySalesForecasting

The topic of our project is sales forecasting which falls in the realm of time-series forecasting. The main objective of this project is to predict the unit sales for a variety of products sold by Corporación Favorita, an Ecuadorian-based grocery retailer.  

Corporación Favorita is a large-scale grocery chain with hundreds of supermarkets spread across Ecuador and other South American countries. They sell over 200,000 products in their supermarkets. One of the biggest challenges for such large stores is the ability to make accurate predictions about the sales of different items to stock up on their inventory accordingly. The emphasis is on the word “accurate” because if these predictions are overestimated than what is needed, then the grocers are stuck with a surplus of products (which, if perishable, could lead to enormous food wastages) and if the predictions are underestimated, then there is a shortage of products that leads to unhappy customers. The current forecasting methods are not usually automated and hence are not equipped to make such accurate predictions. Moreover, the prediction process becomes increasingly complex when factors like adding new retail stores and new products, the current market trends, and the ever-changing customer needs are taken into consideration.  

In this project, we aim to use robust machine learning algorithms to achieve precise predictions on the sales for the grocery store. These predictions would decrease the possibilities of food wastage and increase overall customer satisfaction.